# fake-news-detect
fake news detection using azure
Fake news and hoaxes have been there since before the advent of the Internet. The widely accepted definition of Internet fake news is: fictitious articles deliberately fabricated to deceive readers”. Social media and news outlets publish fake news to increase readership or as part of psychological warfare. Ingeneral, the goal is profiting through clickbaits. Clickbaits lure users and entice curiosity with flashy headlines or designs to click links to increase advertisements revenues. This exposition analyzes the prevalence of fake news in light of the advances in communication made possible by the emergence of social networking sites. The purpose of the work is to come up with a solution that can be utilized by users to detect and filter out sites containing false and misleading information. We use simple and carefully selected features of the title and post to accurately identify fake posts. The experimental results show a 99.4% accuracy using logistic classifier.
Internet and social media have made the access to the news information much easier and comfortable

Often Internet users can pursue the events of their concern in online form, and increased number of the mobile devices makes this process even easier. But with great possibilities come great challenges. Mass media have an enormous influence on the society, and because it often happens, there's someone who wants to require advantage of this fact. Sometimes to realize some goals mass-media may manipulate the knowledge in several ways. This result in producing of the news articles that isnt completely true or maybe completely false. There even exist many websites that produce fake news almost exclusively. They intentionally publish hoaxes, half-truths, propaganda and disinformation asserting to be real news often using social media to drive web traffic and magnify their effect. The most goals of faux news websites are to affect the general public opinion on certain matters (mostly political).
